1. Use the Birthweight data on D2l. The data recorded 16 new born infants birth weight (in oz), age
(in days), systolic blood pressure (SBP), and gender (1 is female and 0 is male)
a) Create an appropriate plot to show the relationship between birth weight and SBP with x
being the birth weight and y being the SBP make your points red. Label the x-axis as Birth
Weight and y-axis as Systolic Blood Pressure

CODE: 

b) What relationship did you see? (Use comments to write in your R Markdown file)
c) Add a regression line to the graph in a) using the “lm” method without showing the
confidence interval band
2. Use the same Birthweight data as in question 1 on D2L.
a) Create an appropriate graph to show the distribution of the systolic blood pressure (SBP)
with 12 bins (bins=12), and add the label “Systolic Blood Pressure” to the x-axis and
“Counts” to the y-axis. Fill the bars with the gold color and boundary with the black color.
b) Do you think the distribution looks like a normal distribution? Write comments to answer.
3. Use the data LEAD on d2l. The data showed the ID of the individuals, ages, sex (1 is male and 2 is
female), full IQ scores (iqf) and lead level group (Group: 1 being the control group and 2 being
the exposed group)
a) Generate an appropriate graph to show the five-number summary of the full IQ scores for
the control and exposed group in one graph. Label the x-axis with “Lead Group” and y with
“Full IQ Scores”.
b) Are there any outliers from the graph? If so, which group (control vs. exposed) has outliers?
Write comments to answer.
c) What can we say about the two groups’ full IQ scores? (i.e. Are they comparable? Is one
group significantly higher than the other?) Write comments to answer
4. Use the COVIDVaccine data on D2L. The data recorded the developer, type of vaccine
(ProductCategory), development stage, and product description of COVID 19 vaccines. The data
were back to September 2020. Generate a bar graph to show the counts of each Product
Category. Put the x-axis tick mark labels on 45 degree with hjust=1.
5. Use the data co2_loa on D2L to generate an appropriate plot to show the temporal patterns for
the time-series data of CO2 concentrations on Mauna Loa, Hawaii. Note, the month and year
information are already provided in the data. Let the x-axis show the months, y-axis be the CO2
concentration, group=year, and use different color to show different year.
